# smu_hw_sept_2023
SMU Homework SEPT 2023
# 01 Excel Pivot Table, & VBA Scripting - Crowdfunding Platform Analysis
Organize and analyze a database of 1000 sample projects for trends and insights into obtaining successful funding
# 02 Excel Pivot Tables & VBA Scripting - Stock Market Data
Create a script that loops through all stocks for one year and outputs: ticker symbol, stock volume, open-close price yearly percent change, and measures of central tendencies. VBA Script runs on several workbooks simultaneously. Include conditional formatting where appropriate.
# 03 Python Bank Budget Data Analysis; Python Election Poll Results
Create a Python Script to analyze financial records for a company over 86 months. Calculate total Profit/Losses(P/L), Changes in P/L, Average of P/L Changes, Max Profit Increase, and Min Profit Decrease. All calculations will be analyzed over the entire 86-month period. Print the final script analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results. Next use the election dataset CSV to modernize the vote-counting process for a small, rural town. Create a Python Script that calculates the total number of votes, complete list of candidates who received votes, percentage of votes each candidate won, total number of votes each candidate won, and the winner of the election based on popular vote. Print the final script analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.
# 04 Create and Manipulate Pandas DataFrames to analyze district-wide standardized test data
District-Key metrics summary calculations: total number of unique schools, students, budget, average math & reading scores, percentage of students who passed math or reading, percentage of students who passed math and reading. School-Key metrics summary calculations: School name, type, total students, total school budget, budget per student, average math and reading scores, percentage of students who passed math or reading, percentage of students who passed math and reading. Identify the highest and lowest performing schools by the overall passing percentage Create a data frame that lists and calculates average math and reading scores by grade (9-12th), and create a table comparing school performance and average spending range per student
# 05
# 06
# 07
# 08
# 09  Data Science Research Project Importing 6 CSV Database Files from the 1980s -90s to PostgreSQL database and performing data modeling, data engineering, & data analysis processes.
Data Modeling- Inspect the CSV files and create an Entity Relationship Diagram of the CSV tables. Diagrams were created using the QuickDB website tools. Data Engineering: Using the Relationship Diagram and QuickDB code, create a schema for each CSV file that specifies data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints. Verify the primary keys column(s) are unique or create a composite key to uniquely identify a row. Create tables in the correct order to properly handle foreign keys. Import each CSV file into its corresponding SQL table. Data Analysis: Create 8 separate Queries that produce visualization charts to analyze and answer the following: 1. List the employee number, List the employee number, last name, first name, sex, and salary of each employee. 2. List the first name, last name, and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986. 3. List the manager of each department along with their department number, department name, employee number, last name, and first name. 4. List the department number for each employee along with that employee’s employee number, last name, first name, and department name. 5. List first name, last name, and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B. 6. List each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name. 7. List each employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name. 8. List the frequency counts, in descending order, of all the employee last names (that is, how many employees share each last name).
